Not too many programs in the qpl-packages act on more than one dataset
at a time.  The most simple operations on multiple datasets are
addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.  Yet even these
have non-trivial aspects:  the corresponding commands @command{dsadd}
and @command{dsmul} only work on datasets that share a common x-axis.
Use other tools, e.g. dsspline (@pxref{dsspline}) to ensure this. 

Apart from the options, @command{dsadd} and @command{dsmul} have to be
passed a list of IDs on the command line.  All of the corresponding
datasets are then combined into one.  Usage:

@example
dsadd [-n] [-p|-m|-f @var{fact}] IDs
@end example

The options are:

@table @code
@item -n
@itemx --new
Create a new data set to store the result.  The new ID is printed on
standard output in the form @code{new id=@var{id}}. 
@item -f @var{fact}
@itemx --factor=@var{fact}
The @var{fact} argument is a comma separated list of numbers, one
for each ID.  Each dataset's y-array is multiplied by the
corresponding factor before adding.
@item -p
@itemx --plus
Average all datasets, i.e. assume a factor of @math{1/@var{n}} for
each dataset, where @var{n} is the number of datasets. 
@item -m
@itemx --minus
Subtract all datasets from the first one, i.e. assume a factor of
@math{-1} for all but the first
@end table

If none of the @code{-p}, @code{-m}, or @code{-f} options is given, a
factor of 1 is assumed for all datasets.

Multiplication and division works along the same lines:

@example
dsmul [-n] [-m|-d|-e @var{exp}] IDs
@end example

The options are:

@table @code
@item 
@item -n
@itemx --new
Create a new data set to store the result.
@item -e @var{exp}
@itemx --exponent=@var{exp}
The @var{exp} argument is a comma separated list of exponents applied
to each dataset before multiplying.
@item -m
@itemx --multiply
Multiply all datasets, i.e. assume all exponents to be 1.  This is the
default. 
@item -d
@itemx --divide
Divide the first dataset by all the others, i.e. assume an exponent of
@math{-1} for all datasets but the first. 
@end table

