With @command{dsdel}, you can delete part of a dataset.  The part of
the data to be removed is determined by testing an expression given on
the command line:

@example
dsdel -t @var{expr} ID(s)
@end example

The syntax of @var{expr} is similar to those of @command{dssc}
(@pxref{dssc}).  However, the typical test expressions are simple
expressions like @code{x<=2}.  Using logical operations, multiple
expressions can be combined.  You can use a subset of the elements of
the scaling expressions of @command{dssc}, please refer to that
section for further references:

@table @code
@item i, N
You can use @code{i} to refer to the current value of the array
index. @code{N} specifies the total number of datapoints. 
@item x, y, x[@var{j}], y[@var{j}]
Refers to the current datapoint's x- and y-value, or to the @var{j}th
element of the x- and y-array.  The arrays are indexed starting with
0.  For convenience, @code{[N]} is equivalent to @code{[N-1]}.
@item pi, e, h, hbar, kb
Physical constants.
@item ee/h, h/ee, l00, phi0
Combinations common in mesoscopic physics. @code{phi0} is the flux
quantum, h/e.
@item sin(x), cos(x), tan(x)
@itemx asin(x), asin(x), acos(x) atan(x), atan2(x,y) 
Trigonometric functions.
@item exp(x), log(x), log10(x), pow(x,y)
@itemx expm1(x), log1p(x), 
Exponential and logarithmic functions.
@item sqrt(x), cbrt(x), hypot(x,y)
Square and cubic root.
@item sinh(x), cosh(x), tanh(x)
@itemx asinh(x), acosh(x), atanh(x)
Hyperbolic functions.
@item fabs(x), fmod(x,y)
Absolute value and remainder function. 
@end table

Further elements that build up the expressions are:

@table @code
@item +, -, *, /
addition, subtraction, multiplication, division
@item (, )
braces
@item !=, ==, <, >, <=, >=
(un)equality, comparison
@item &, |, !
logical and, or, and not
@end table

Maybe an example helps to illustrate this:

@example
dsdel -t "(fabs(x)<20)&(y>=pi-1)" @var{id}
@end example

This command deletes all datapoints with
@ifnottex
@math{|x|<20} and @math{y>=pi-1}.
@end ifnottex
@tex
$|x|<20$ and $y\ge\pi-1$.
@end tex
