The program @command{dsg} serves some rather peculiar purposes when
viewed in the context of the whole qpl suite.  Historically, though,
it was one of the first applications for @command{qpl}.  Usage:

@example
dsg [-p @var{n}] [-i @var{name}]
@end example
or
@example
dsg [-p @var{n}] [-P @var{data}]
@end example
or
@example
dsg [-p @var{n}] [-e @var{command}]
@end example

The first variant creates a dataset without writing an entry in the
log file.  The second call to @command{dsg} can be used to create a
regular dataset by specifying the data on the command line.  This is
of course only practical for datasets consisting of just a few points
(e.g. when constructing a `guide to the eye') that do not necessarily
need a source file to be loaded from.  In the third variant,
@var{command} is executed, and its standard output is processed in the
usual way by @command{dsg}.  This action is also documented in the
log file. 

The options are in detail:
@table @code
@item -p @var{n}
@itemx --plotlevel=@var{n}
Set the plot level of the dataset to @var{n}. 
@item -i @var{file}
@itemx --input=@var{file}
Read data from @var{file} instead of from standard input.  This
actually corresponds to combining @command{dsl} with @command{dslog}. 
@item -P @var{data}
@itemx --points=@var{data}
Put the given @var{data}, a space-separated list of pairs of x- and
y-values (e.g. @code{"0 1 1 2"}), into a dataset.
@item -e @var{command}
@itemx --exec=@var{command}
Execute the @var{command}, the output of which is interpreted as data
and stored in a dataset.  Everything following the @code{-e} switch is
treated as the @var{command}, so you don't have to enclose a
multi-word command in quotes. 
@end table

One common application of @command{dsg} is to monitor a continously
growing data file, e.g. documenting an ongoing measurement.  In that
case, you could call @code{tail -f @var{file} | dsg}.  To avoid
delays, you should make sure that @var{file} is written to in line
buffered mode (@pxref{Stream Buffering,,,libc,The GNU C Library
Reference Manual}). 
