Each dataset carries a set of properties that are mainly concerned
whith its graphical representation.  The command @command{dssp}
provides an interface to these settings:

@example
dssp [options] ID(s)
@end example

The options are:

@table @code

@item -p @var{n}
@itemx --plev=@var{n}
The plot level determines the order in which the datasets are plotted.
The valid range is @math{@var{n}>-2}.  A dataset with
@math{@var{n}=-1} is usually not displayed by @command{qpl}.
@item -b @var{name}
@itemx --linestyle=@var{name}
Set the line style.  @var{name} can be @code{NoPen} (no line is
drawn), @code{SolidLine}, @code{DashLine}, @code{DotLine},
@code{DashDotLine}, or @code{DashDotDotLine}. 
@item -u @var{n}
@itemx --linewidth=@var{n}   
Set the linewidth to @var{n}, with 
@tex 
$0\le{}n\le{}9$. 
@end tex
@ifnottex
@math{0<=@var{n}<=9}.
@end ifnottex
@item -c @var{name}
@itemx --linecolor=@var{name}
Draw the line in the color @var{name}.  The color names are compatible
to the Latex package @code{graphics}.  They are @code{GreenYellow},
@code{Yellow}, @code{Goldenrod}, @code{Dandelion}, @code{Apricot},
@code{Peach}, @code{Melon}, @code{YellowOrange}, @code{Orange},
@code{BurntOrange}, @code{Bittersweet}, @code{RedOrange}, @code{Mahogany},
@code{Maroon}, @code{BrickRed}, @code{Red}, @code{OrangeRed},
@code{RubineRed}, @code{WildStrawberry}, @code{Salmon},
@code{CarnationPink}, @code{Magenta}, @code{VioletRed}, @code{Rhodamine},
@code{Mulberry}, @code{RedViolet}, @code{Fuchsia}, @code{Lavender},
@code{Thistle}, @code{Orchid}, @code{DarkOrchid}, @code{Purple},
@code{Plum}, @code{Violet}, @code{RoyalPurple}, @code{BlueViolet},
@code{Periwinkle}, @code{CadetBlue}, @code{CornflowerBlue},
@code{MidnightBlue}, @code{NavyBlue}, @code{RoyalBlue}, @code{Blue},
@code{Cerulean}, @code{Cyan}, @code{ProcessBlue}, @code{SkyBlue},
@code{Turquoise}, @code{TealBlue}, @code{Aquamarine}, @code{BlueGreen},
@code{Emerald}, @code{JungleGreen}, @code{SeaGreen}, @code{Green},
@code{ForestGreen}, @code{PineGreen}, @code{LimeGreen},
@code{YellowGreen}, @code{SpringGreen}, @code{OliveGreen},
@code{RawSienna}, @code{Sepia}, @code{Brown}, @code{Tan}, @code{Gray},
@code{Black}, and @code{White}. 
@item -k @var{name}
@itemx --symbolstyle=@var{name}
Specify the shape of the symbol for the datapoints: @code{NoSymbol},
@code{ClosedCircle}, @code{OpenCircle}, @code{ClosedSquare},
@code{OpenSquare}, @code{ClosedDiamond}, or @code{OpenDiamond}.
@item -e  @var{n}
@itemx --symbolsize=@var{n}
Set the size of the symbols.  The valid range is
@tex 
$1\le{}n\le{}10$. 
@end tex
@ifnottex
@math{1<=@var{n}<=10}.
@end ifnottex
@item -t @var{name}
@itemx --symbolcolor=@var{name}
Set the symbol color.  See the @code{-c} option above for the names. 
@item -i @var{string}
@itemx --ident=@var{string}
Clear the array of ident-strings and use @var{string} instead. 
@item -a @var{string}
@itemx --add_ident=@var{string}
Add @var{string} to the dataset's array of ident strings. 
@item -r
@itemx --rainbow
Give each of the IDs passed on the command line a different color.
The list of colors is: @code{Blue}, @code{Red}, @code{Green},
@code{RawSienna}, @code{Goldenrod}, @code{Bittersweet},
@code{Magenta}, @code{Orchid}, @code{PineGreen}, and @code{Tan}.  If
there are more IDs than colors, the list is wrapped to the beginning.
@item -l
@itemx --log
Create an entry for the log file.  Thus, the action of @command{dssp}
is recorded by @command{dsreg}. 
@item -q
@itemx --quiet       
Do not create a log entry.  This is the default behavior. 
@end table
