The program @code{dswl} uses the non-linear least square fit method to
evaluate magneto-conductance measurements that show the signatures of
2D weak localization.  A simplified formula is used (see, e.g., the
PhD thesis of Roland Sch@"afer):
@ifnottex

@display
@math{dG_sq(B) / L_00 = 1.5*F(0.5 + B_tr/B) - 0.5*F(0.5 + B_si/B)
                  + log(B) + 0.5*log(B_si) - 1.5*log(B_tr)},
@end display

@end ifnottex
@tex
$$ \delta{}G_{\rm sq}(B) / L_{00} = 
    {3\over 2} \Psi\left({1\over 2}+{B_{\rm tr}\over B}\right)
    - {1\over 2} \Psi\left({1\over 2}+{B_{\rm si}\over B}\right)
    + \log(B) + {1\over 2} \log(B_{\rm si}) - {3\over 2} \log(B_{\rm
    tr})\,, 
$$
@end tex
where 
@ifnottex
@math{F(x)}
@end ifnottex
@tex
$\Psi(x)$
@end tex
denotes the digamma function. The singlet and triplet fields are
related to the phase coherence, spin-orbit and spin-flip fields:
@ifnottex

@display
@math{B_tr = (4/3)*B_so + (2/3)*B_sf + B_phi},  @math{B_si = 2*B_sf + B_phi}
@end display

@end ifnottex
@tex
$$B_{\rm tr}={4\over 3}B_{\rm so}+{2\over 3}B_{\rm sf}+B_\phi\,,\qquad
  B_{\rm si}=2B_{\rm sf} + B_\phi $$
@end tex
From these fields, the corresponding scattering time can be
calculated:
@ifnottex
@math{tau_x = h / (8 pi e D B_x)}.
@end ifnottex
@tex
$ \tau_x=h/(8\pi{}e D B_x)\,. $
@end tex

Call @command{dswl} like this:

@example
dswl [options] ID(s)
@end example

In addition to the options common to all fit routines, the following
fit parameters can be passed on the command line in the usual way
(@pxref{Least Square Fit}):

@table @code
@item A
Amplitude of the weak localization.  The default value is 1.
@item B_si
The singlet field.  The default value is 1. 
@item b
The ratio of the triplet to the singlet field:
@ifnottex
@math{@code{b}=B_tr/B_si}.
@end ifnottex
@tex
$@code{b}=B_{\rm tr}/B_{\rm si}$.
@end tex
Default is @math{@code{b}=1}.
@item B0
Offset for the x-array (default is 0).
@item G0
Offset for the y-array (default is 0).
@end table

The input data should represent the correction to the conductance in
units of
@ifnottex
@math{L_00=e^2/(pi*h)}
@end ifnottex
@tex
$L_{00}=e^2/(\pi{}h)$
@end tex 
as a function of the magnetic field, with @math{y(0)=0}. 
The ratio @code{b} was introduced so that only one parameter
(@code{B_si}) is concerned with the absolute value of the field
scale.  In the simple case (no spin-flip scattering), @code{b} is
a measure for the importance of the spin-orbit scattering. 

In interactive mode, the parameters do not have to be capitalized.
@code{Bsi} is also accepted instead of @code{B_si}. 
